=============
    JAVA
=============

What is Java?
   Java is a programming language and a platform. 
   Java is a high level, robust, object-oriented and secure programming language.
   
   Java was developed by Sun Microsystems (which is now the subsidiary of Oracle) in the year 1995. 
   James Gosling is known as the father of Java. Before Java, its name was Oak. 
   Since Oak was already a registered company, so James Gosling and his team changed the name from Oak to Java.
   
   Platform: Any hardware or software environment in which a program runs, is known as a platform. 
   Since Java has a runtime environment (JRE) and API, it is called a platform.

It is used for:

   * Mobile applications (specially Android apps)
   * Desktop applications
   * Web applications
   * Web servers and application servers
   * Games
   * Database connection
   * And much, much more!

History: Java’s history is very interesting. 
        It is a programming language created in 1991. 
        James Gosling, Mike Sheridan, and Patrick Naughton, a team of Sun engineers known as the Green team initiated the Java language in 1991. 
        Sun Microsystems released its first public implementation in 1996 as Java 1.0. 
        It provides no-cost -run-times on popular platforms. Java1.0 compiler was re-written in Java by Arthur Van Hoff to strictly comply with its specifications. 
        With the arrival of Java 2, new versions had multiple configurations built for different types of platforms.
        In 1997, Sun Microsystems approached the ISO standards body and later formalized Java, but it soon withdrew from the process. 
        At one time, Sun made most of its Java implementations available without charge, despite their proprietary software status. 
        Sun generated revenue from Java through the selling of licenses for specialized products such as the Java Enterprise System.
        
        On November 13, 2006, Sun released much of its Java virtual machine as free, open-source software. 
        On May 8, 2007, Sun finished the process, making all of its JVM’s core code available under open-source distribution terms.

        The principles for creating java were simple, robust, secured, high performance, portable, multi-threaded, interpreted, dynamic, etc. 
        In 1995 Java was developed by James Gosling, who is known as the Father of Java. 
        Currently, Java is used in mobile devices, internet programming, games, e-business, etc.

Types of Java Applications
    There are mainly 4 types of applications that can be created using Java programming:

    1) Standalone Application
    Standalone applications are also known as desktop applications or window-based applications. 
    These are traditional software that we need to install on every machine. 
    Examples of standalone application are Media player, antivirus, etc. 
    AWT and Swing are used in Java for creating standalone applications.
    
    2) Web Application
    An application that runs on the server side and creates a dynamic page is called a web application. 
    Currently, Servlet
    , JSP
    , Struts
    , Spring
    , Hibernate
    , JSF
    , etc. technologies are used for creating web applications in Java.
    
    3) Enterprise Application
    An application that is distributed in nature, such as banking applications, etc. is called an enterprise application. 
    It has advantages like high-level security, load balancing, and clustering. 
    In Java, EJB
    is used for creating enterprise applications.
    
    4) Mobile Application
    An application which is created for mobile devices is called a mobile application. 
    Currently, Android and Java ME are used for creating mobile applications.
    
    
Java Platforms / Editions
    There are 4 platforms or editions of Java:
    
    1) Java SE (Java Standard Edition)
    It is a Java programming platform. 
    It includes Java programming APIs such as java.lang, java.io, java.net, java.util, java.sql, java.math etc. 
    It includes core topics like OOPs, String
    , Regex, Exception, Inner classes, Multithreading, I/O Stream, Networking, AWT, Swing, Reflection, Collection, etc.
    
    2) Java EE (Java Enterprise Edition)
    It is an enterprise platform that is mainly used to develop web and enterprise applications. 
    It is built on top of the Java SE platform. It includes topics like Servlet, JSP, Web Services, EJB, JPA
    , etc.
    
    3) Java ME (Java Micro Edition)
    It is a micro platform that is dedicated to mobile applications.
    
    4) JavaFX
    It is used to develop rich internet applications. It uses a lightweight user interface API.
    
    
Prerequisite
To learn Java, you must have the basic knowledge of C/C++ programming language.

Audience
Our Java programming tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals.
